
This lesson is a hands-on demonstration of Sensitive Data Protection. It shows how to identify and protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) within a newly ingested customer dataset.


In this scenario, Cymbal has launched a new loyalty program. New customer information has been collected and loaded into a BigQuery table named loyalty_program_customers. This table contains standard information, such as names and purchase histories, and also includes potentially sensitive data, such as email addresses, phone numbers, and free-text comments from customer feedback surveys.




In this video, we will overview what sensitive data protection can do to help you find and keep track of the sensitive information you have and reduce your exposure of items that need to be kept secure, such as private information, credit cards, names and addresses, and more. If you have a data lake, you're going to have a lot of data. It can be difficult to go through all of that data manually and find the fields that are exposing information that shouldn't be exposed. There is only a little bit we're going to consider, which is some of the discovery pieces that find where what sensitive data you have. It does offer the capability to do quite a bit more. For example, it can deanonymize data in files or on the fly in BigQuery queries. In your data Lakehouse, BigQuery queries include data in files that are in cloud storage and other external sources. We're not going to be covering that. We are only considering how it can help discover the sensitive fields that you need to be aware of. We will start with the sensitive data protection panel. First is discovery. Let's examine how you set it up for I've already gone in and set these up, and I've run them already.

Just a little overview of the setup. Later, we'll go and review the output. You can configure it to work with different sources, including Cloud SQL, Cloud Storage, Vert, AI data sets, and other sources. We're focusing on BigQuery because it is, of course, the hub of your Lakehouse. When you hit Enable, it's going to ask you for the type of data source that you're doing discover from. When you hit Continue, you're now asked whether you want to process all the data associated with the project or do you want to We'll just scan one table. We'll just scan one table. It defaulted to the project that I am in for that one table. Then give it a data set ID. And this particular one I'm using is BQLab. Then give it the table name, which is users. Hit continue. You set your discovery frequency. The default is when things change or when you create a new schedule or when there's changes in the underlying data. We're going with the default because it will run when it's saved. We can go pick the inspection template. I am going to create a new one using all of the different inspection types available.

It can search for government IDs, age, national identity numbers, date of births, and many different types of data that would be sensitive. I am using everything. You may not need to use everything, and it would then run a little bit faster. Next are rule sets. These give you more ways to control what is examined. You can adjust the likelihood. This is the probability the field is a sensitive field. You can pick that it's very likely, somewhat likely, unlikely, very unlikely, etc. You can find safe fields by considering fields that are very unlikely, or you can find fields that are very sensitive by choosing the likely setting or anywhere in between. You can set actions. This is what it does when items that meet your criteria are found. I had it publish output to BigQuery previously, so we can review at the output, and we will set it for that now. You give it a data set and a table ID name. There are many destinations that you can publish this information to. When you are done, you hit Create, and it will create the job and run it. That's how you do set up a discover operation.

I'm going to discard this one because as I said, I did run it previously, and you will I'll note my previous run right there. You can run a risk analysis that reports on how risky your data items are and the risk exposure it's creating. Another option is a deep inspection. I have run those and we'll examine them over in BigQuery. Below this section is the Protect your data segment. Content, there is content de-identification for files in cloud storage, and you can integrate it into your operation many different ways so that you are keeping your data safe and protecting your users from being exposed or identified. Let's head over to BigQuery. As I said, I ran the operations previously, and that created these different output tables. We'll examine what's in the various tables. Starting with the underlying table, users. We have first and last names, address, city, state, and postal code. This is simplified synthetic data. Next is the user samples output. When I did discovery, I had it save samples of the sensitive data that was found. Another piece of output that can be provided is run information. This is just giving details about the particular run of the discovery.

Then we have the user risk. Finally, we have inspection. While similar to samples, inspection gets into more detail. Without manually going through and reviewing every data set and through every field, you can examine these output reports and you will quickly identify where sensitive data is in your data sets. Whether it happens to be an iceberg table that's sitting in cloud storage, it's in BigQuery native storage, or the data is in a transactional database, you can find out where the sensitive items are and then apply the appropriate remediations to keep all of your data safe.


